---
layout: post
title: 100 Days of Code - Failed 
subtitle: Failure is simply the opportunity to begin again, this time more intelligently. - Henry Ford
tags: [programming, 100daysofcode, godot]
comments: true
---

# Failed
Apparently there's a Henry Ford quote for everything. Although the quote I chose
for the subtitle of this blog helps, I can't help but feel disappointed with 
myself. I set myself the goal to complete the 100 days of code challenge while working 
on a Godot project and came up well short. I did make it to day 30, but never 
got around to writing my planned 30 day blog. It's difficult to believe that it 
has been over 6 months since I last blogged... I'm not sure where the time has 
gone and it's an indicator of just how busy I've been over the past six months.

## What Happened?
I'm not a fan of excuses, but performing a postmortem should help me avoid
making commitments that I can't stick to in the future. Ultimately it came down 
to a perfect storm of increased responsibility at work and new side project 
opportunities that were able to sufficiently distract me. My employer won a new 
contract for a program that may end up being the largest in the company's long 
history and I'm leading one of the software teams. That alone is enough to amp 
up my stress levels to undesirable levels. To make matters worse the company we 
are working with is located in Germany, which led to several weeks worth of 3am 
meetings to define the initial architecture for the system that we are building. 
Parallel to that, I started working on a separate side project with a friend of 
mine that consumed any of the spare time I had outside of work. I kept telling 
myself that I'd get back to the 100 days of code challenge as soon as things 
normalized (they really haven't yet), but by the time I had opportunities to 
start working on it again I had already lost the habit that I had built and was 
seriously lacking motivation.

## The Future
I wouldn't be doing the Henry Ford quote justice if I didn't plan to keep going.
I plan to continue to learn Godot with the end goal of creating a game. However,
I'm going to start fresh and consider my previous work in Godot as a practice
project. The be clear, I'm not starting another round of 100 days of code. I've
decided that my life isn't in a position where I can reasonably dedicate an hour
every day towards this goal. 

Having the daily goal looming over my head added a lot of unnecessary stress and
anxiety that I'd like to avoid. I'm hopeful that I will stick to a somewhat
consistent schedule, even if it's not per the 100 days of code guide. I know the
importance if building and maintaining habits, but I want to code because it's 
an activity that I enjoy doing, not because it's one that I'm forcing myself to 
do.

In addition to continuing to learn Godot, I'd like to make a habit out of
blogging. If anything, it will be fun to document my progress on the various 
projects that I'm working on. At the start of the year I gave myself the goal of 
writing at least 1 blog every month. It's already mid-March, and I'm just now 
releasing my first... I guess I have some catching up to do. The topics of my 
blogs with vary. Some will focus on whatever project I'm working on at the time, 
others may be related to whatever topics I find interesting at the time. I've 
maintained a "blog ideas" Google Doc that's been growing for years. It's about 
time I start working those topics.